articles/components/details/index.asciidoc, before:

---
title: Details
page-links:
  - 'API: https://cdn.vaadin.com/vaadin-web-components/{moduleNpmVersion:vaadin-details}/#/elements/vaadin-details[TypeScript] / https://vaadin.com/api/platform/{moduleMavenVersion:com.vaadin:vaadin}/com/vaadin/flow/component/details/Details.html[Java]'
  - 'Source: https://github.com/vaadin/web-components/tree/v{moduleNpmVersion:vaadin-details}/packages/details[TypeScript] / https://github.com/vaadin/flow-components/tree/{moduleMavenVersion:com.vaadin:vaadin}/vaadin-details-flow-parent[Java]'
---

= Details

// tag::description[]
Details is an expandable panel for showing and hiding content from the user, in order to make the UI less crowded.
// end::description[]

[.example]
--
[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-basic.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsBasic.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

== Anatomy

Details consists of a summary area and a content area.

=== Summary

The Summary is the part that is always visible, and typically describes the contents, for example with a title.
Clicking on the summary toggles the content area's visibility.

The summary supports rich content and can contain any component.
This can be used, for example, to indicate the status of the corresponding content.

[.example]
--
[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-summary.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/generated/com/vaadin/demo/domain/Country.ts[group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsSummary.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----

--

=== Content

This is the collapsible part of Details.
It can contain any component.
When the content area is collapsed, the content is invisible and inaccessible by keyboard or screen reader.

[.example]
--
[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-content.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsContent.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

== Theme Variants

Details has three theme variants: `filled`, `small`, and `reverse`.
Theme variants can be freely combined with each other.
For example, all three themes variants can be applied to the same Details component.

=== Filled

The `filled` theme variant makes the component's boundaries visible, which helps tie its content together visually and distinguishes it from the surrounding UI.

[.example]
--
[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-filled.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsFilled.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

=== Small

Use the `small` theme variant for compact UIs.

[.example]
--
[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-small.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsSmall.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

=== Reverse

The reverse theme variant places the toggle icon after the summary contents, which can be useful for visually aligning the summary with other content.

[.example]
--

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-reverse.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsReverse.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----

--

=== Disabled
Details can be disabled to prevent them from being expanded or collapsed.
Components inside a disabled expanded Details are automatically disabled as well.

[.example]
--

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-disabled.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsDisabled.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----

--

== Best Practices

Use Details to group related content and to reduce the risk of overwhelming the user with information.
However, avoid putting important information in a Details component unless it is expanded by default.
Otherwise, the user might not notice it.

Details can be used instead of Accordion if there is a need to see content from multiple collapsible content areas simultaneously.

== Related Components

[cols="1,2"]
|===
|Component |Usage recommendations

|<<../accordion#,Accordion>>|Vertically stacked set of expandable panels, in which only one panel can be expanded at a time.

|<<../tabs#,Tabs>>|Component for organizing and grouping content into navigable sections.

|===


[.discussion-id]
25CA6A07-DDDB-47F3-9E6D-EEAB00498336

Commit message:

Added tooltip references to Accordion, Button, CRUD, Details, Grid, Input Fields and Menu Bar pages

articles/components/details/index.asciidoc, after:

---
title: Details
page-links:
  - 'API: https://cdn.vaadin.com/vaadin-web-components/{moduleNpmVersion:vaadin-details}/#/elements/vaadin-details[TypeScript] / https://vaadin.com/api/platform/{moduleMavenVersion:com.vaadin:vaadin}/com/vaadin/flow/component/details/Details.html[Java]'
  - 'Source: https://github.com/vaadin/web-components/tree/v{moduleNpmVersion:vaadin-details}/packages/details[TypeScript] / https://github.com/vaadin/flow-components/tree/{moduleMavenVersion:com.vaadin:vaadin}/vaadin-details-flow-parent[Java]'
---

= Details

// tag::description[]
Details is an expandable panel for showing and hiding content from the user, in order to make the UI less crowded.
// end::description[]

[.example]
--
[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-basic.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsBasic.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

== Anatomy

Details consists of a summary area and a content area.

=== Summary

The Summary is the part that is always visible, and typically describes the contents, for example with a title.
Clicking on the summary toggles the content area's visibility.

The summary supports rich content and can contain any component.
This can be used, for example, to indicate the status of the corresponding content.

[.example]
--
[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-summary.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/generated/com/vaadin/demo/domain/Country.ts[group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsSummary.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----

--

=== Content

This is the collapsible part of Details.
It can contain any component.
When the content area is collapsed, the content is invisible and inaccessible by keyboard or screen reader.

[.example]
--
[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-content.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsContent.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

== Theme Variants

Details has three theme variants: `filled`, `small`, and `reverse`.
Theme variants can be freely combined with each other.
For example, all three themes variants can be applied to the same Details component.

=== Filled

The `filled` theme variant makes the component's boundaries visible, which helps tie its content together visually and distinguishes it from the surrounding UI.

[.example]
--
[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-filled.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsFilled.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

=== Small

Use the `small` theme variant for compact UIs.

[.example]
--
[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-small.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsSmall.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----
--

=== Reverse

The reverse theme variant places the toggle icon after the summary contents, which can be useful for visually aligning the summary with other content.

[.example]
--

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-reverse.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsReverse.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----

--

=== Disabled
Details can be disabled to prevent them from being expanded or collapsed.
Components inside a disabled expanded Details are automatically disabled as well.

[.example]
--

[source,typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/details/details-disabled.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source,java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/details/DetailsDisabled.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----

--

== Best Practices

Use Details to group related content and to reduce the risk of overwhelming the user with information.
However, avoid putting important information in a Details component unless it is expanded by default.
Otherwise, the user might not notice it.

Details can be used instead of Accordion if there is a need to see content from multiple collapsible content areas simultaneously.

The expandable/collapsable nature of Details panels can sometimes be difficult for users to discover. Use the <<filled_panels,filled variant>> and/or apply a <<../tooltip#,tooltip>> to make this more discoverable.

== Related Components

[cols="1,2"]
|===
|Component |Usage recommendations

|<<../accordion#,Accordion>>|Vertically stacked set of expandable panels, in which only one panel can be expanded at a time.

|<<../tabs#,Tabs>>|Component for organizing and grouping content into navigable sections.

|===


[.discussion-id]
25CA6A07-DDDB-47F3-9E6D-EEAB00498336
